---
layout: post
title:  "Korean Ambassador Cup 2018 &ndash; report"
date:   2018-04-25 10:04:42 +0100
---

We have organized  the **47th Prague Go Tournament, Korean Ambassador Cup**, which took place on **21&ndash;22 April 2018** in Hotel Duo, Prague.

The results can be found at [EGF Database](http://www.europeangodatabase.eu/EGD/Tournament_Card.php?&key=T180421B).

You can also have a look at [Photos from the Tournament]( https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipO4ialXqanAyY8rXJhfERcnvKecVCS7eYmGVIdNtW00s8rQBU_IVTlky3W-fH4aZA?key=ekRLbUoyVUV3RFdCTzc0anNkTkpXTTF2S0hjZXpR )!

# Report

The Prague International Go Tournament belongs among three top go events in the country. It was already its 47th term and for the 11th time it was played as the Korean Ambassador´s Cup. Traditionally, the event is also a qualification for the annual Korean Prime Minister Cup taking place in Korea in the fall.

This year the total number of participants reached 95 players from 14 countries (including Czechia) and about 40 different go clubs. The furthest traveled player came from Japan, an 89 years old enthusiast who stays temporarily in Prague. Since the tournament has also become a part of the European Grand Prix circuit a number of top European players attended the event with Mateusz Surma, a professional player from Poland, being the strongest among them. As in recent years the event was held in the Congress Hall of the Duo Hotel in Prague, traditionally under the auspices of the Korean Embassy in the Czech Republic. At the opening ceremony the participants were warmly welcomed by His Excellence Mr. Moon Seoung-hyun, the Korean Ambassador in Prague himself.   

The top eight Czech players went through knockout rounds to determine the winner of the main prize – the Korean Ambassador´s Cup. The winner is the same as the last year, Lukáš Podpěra, who defeated Radek Nechanický in the final game. Being the current top Czech player Lukáš Podpěra is well suited to represent our country at the Prime Minister Cup in Korea (13th World Go Championship).

After three Saturday rounds there were two undefeated players with the top score: Lukáš Podpěra 6-dan, and Kim Young-Sam 7-dan, a Korean who resides in Germany and belongs among the strongest amateur players worldwide. At the end the Korean player proved to be too strong for his opponents and won the tournament without losing a game. The 2nd and 3rd places were taken by Lukáš Podpěra and Mateusz Surma, respectively, both of them scoring 4 wins. The complete list of results and more information can be found at [http://www.europeangodatabase.eu/EGD/Tournament_Card.php?&key=T180421B](http://www.europeangodatabase.eu/EGD/Tournament_Card.php?&key=T180421B).

All players and visitors also appreciated an excellent tea spot arranged by professional tee experts and providing cups of high quality tea free of charge. The event was organized by the Pagoda society that supports go events in and around Prague and by the Czech Go Association. The organizers would like to thank all the supporters and sponsors that include the companies Sungwoo Hitech, WUBE Software Ltd., China Tours, and Mr. Vladimír Daněk, a long time organizer and director of the tournament. Special thanks go to the Korean Embassy for its already traditional support of the event.

On behalf of the organizers, Aleš Cieplý
